as a little girl I always imagined I
would one day run away from the age of
six on I kept a packed bag with some
clothes and cans of food tucked away in
the back of a closet
there was a deep restlessness in me a
primal fear that I would fall prey to a
life of routine and boredom and so many
of my early memories involve intricate
daydreams where I would walk across
borders forage for berries and meet all
kinds of strange people living
unconventional lives on the road years
have passed but many of the adventures I
fantasized about as a child traveling
and weaving my way between worlds other
than my own have become realities
through my work as a documentary
photographer but no other experience has
felt as true to my childhood dreams as
living amongst and documenting the lives
of fellow Wanderers across the United
States this is the nomadic dream a
different kind of American dream lived
by young hobos travelers hitchhikers
vagrants and tramps in most of our minds
the vagabond is a creature from the past
the word hobo conjures up an old
black-and-white image of a weathered old
man covered in coal legs dangling out of
a boxcar but these photographs are in
color and they portray a community
swirling across the country fiercely
alive and creatively free seeing sides
of America that no one else gets to see
like their predecessors today's nomads
traveled the steel and asphalt arteries
of the United States by day they hopped
freight trains stick out their thumbs
and ride the highways with anyone from
truckers to soccer moms by night they
sleep beneath the Stars huddled together
with their packs of dogs
some pet rats between their bodies some
travelers take to the road by choice
renouncing materialism traditional jobs
and university degrees in exchange for a
glimmer of adventure others come from
the underbelly of society never given a
chance to mobilize upwards foster care
dropouts teenage runaways escaping abuse
and unforgiving homes where others see
stories of privation and economic
failure travellers view their own
existence through the prism of
liberation and freedom they'd rather
live off of the excess of what they view
as a wasteful consumer society than
slave away at an unrealistic chance at
the traditional American Dream they take
advantage of the fact that in the United
States up to 40% of all food ends up in
the garbage by scavenging for perfectly
good produce and dumpsters and trash
cans they sacrifice material comforts in
exchange for the space and the time to
explore a creative interior to dream to
read to work on music art and writing
but there are many aspects to this life
that are far from idyllic no one loses
their inner demons by taking to the road
addiction is real the elements are real
freight trains maim and kill and anyone
who has lived on the streets can attest
the exhaustive list of laws the
criminalized homeless existence who here
knows that in many cities across the
United States it is now illegal to sit
on the sidewalk to wrap oneself in a
blanket to sleep in your own car to
offer food to a stranger I know about
these laws because I've watched as
friends and other travelers were hauled
off to jail or receive citations for
committing these so-called crimes many
of you might be wondering why anyone
would choose a life like this under the
thumb of discriminatory laws eating out
of trash cans sleeping under bridges
picking up seasonal jobs here and there
the answer to such a question is as
varied as the people that take to the
road with travelers often respond with a
single word freedom until we live in a
society where every human is assured
dignity in their labor so that they can
work to live well not only work to
survive there will always be an element
of those who seek the open road as a
means of escape of liberation and of
course of rebellion thank you
[Applause]